---
layout: post
title:  "Making it with anxiety"
subtitle: "Every day is a struggle"
date:   2015-04-05
---

I have pretty much always been anxious. Meeting new people is hard; I rarely stray outside of my friend group; I’m constantly worried in large groups of people; overly nervous for the first day of anything; hell — even just going out to the grocery store can be a struggle sometimes.

I’ve learned to ignore the anxious feeling in the pit of my stomach most of the time. It’s hard, and sometimes it can get the best of me, but I know I need to do it. Most importantly, I know I need to do it to to be the developer/designer/whatever that I want to be.

After beginning my career and going to conferences, meetups, hackathons, and workshops I obviously noticed that women were super under represented everywhere. I rarely saw women participating in these events, let alone running them. I wanted to be able to do my part, to be a role model for women like me just getting started. The only problem was, well, I physically couldn’t.

Just the thought of speaking in front of a group of people makes me nauseous, and no, it isn’t the normal stage fright everyone has, it’s this overwhelming anxious experience. I begin to stumble over my words. What if someone asks a question I haven’t prepared for? How will I answer it and still make sense? What if I run out of time? What if I’m wrong about something? My mind constantly races as I try to do anything I haven’t already thought through. I’ve had panic attacks in public before and I am terrified almost every day of it happening again.

Life with anxiety certainly isn’t easy, but I know I can’t let it control me if I want to get to where I want to be. I want to run events. I want to meet awesome people. I want to share my knowledge with people. I want to talk at conferences. I want to make it.

Lately, the only thing I’ve found that doesn’t turn me into a total anxious mess and is helping me reach my goals is teaching. Starting to teach topics that I have spent the last 5 years of my life immersed in is incredibly rewarding. I know these things inside and out and I could talk to anyone about them for hours. I’ve also been very lucky to have great environments to practice in. My first few workshops have been at women focused events and I’m so glad to have found communities that are so supportive that I don’t even care if I am skipping over my words.

I love being a designer, developer, and pushing gender equality in tech forward. Every single day is a struggle, but I can do this because **I am trying my fucking hardest**.

